---
icon: mdi:image-check
title: Setting up your gallery
main:
  fluid: false
---
:ellipsis{left=0px width=40rem top=10rem blur=140px}
# Setting up your gallery (without WebUI)

With your site configuration complete, it’s time to configure your gallery.

```sh hl_lines="4 5 6 7"
lumeex/
└── config/
    ├── site.yaml
    ├── gallery.yaml
    ├── photos/
    │   ├── gallery
    │   └── hero
    └── themes/
        ├── modern
        └── typewriter 
```


## Photos
---

The `photos` directory contains all images you want to display on your site. It includes two subdirectories:
- `gallery/`: put your gallery photos here.  
- `hero/`: put carousel photos for the homepage here.

::alert{type="info"}
:::list{type="info"}
- __Note :__ Gallery photos are all tagged images displayed throughout your site. Hero photos appear at the top of your site as a carousel, cycling through images in the top title block.
:::
::

## Building your gallery
---

All your gallery photos must be referenced under the `gallery.images` section in `gallery.yaml`:
```yaml
gallery:
  images: []
```

Similarly, all hero photos must be listed under the `hero.images` section:
```yaml
hero:
  images: []
```
Hero photos power the carousel and automatically cycle to the next image every 7 seconds.

Use the `gallery` command to automatically populate these sections with all photos located in their respective folders:

::code-group
```sh [Docker]
sudo docker exec -it lmx gallery
```
```sh [Python]
python3 gallery.py
```
::
::alert{type="warning"}
:::list{type="warning"}
  - __Python:__ Make sure to run the script from the `lumeex/` directory; otherwise, it will not be found.
:::
::

If you add new photos later, the script appends only the new files to the existing references. If you remove photos from the folders, the script removes their references to keep your gallery up to date and avoid broken entries.

## Tagging
---

Once your `gallery.yaml` is populated, you can tag each referenced photo like this:

```yaml
images:
- src: gallery/your_photo_1.jpg
  tags: [portrait]
- src: gallery/your_photo_2.jpg
  tags: [portrait, sunset, "big boats"]
- src: gallery/your_photo_3.jpg
  tags: [landscape, sea, beach, sand]
```

Tags containing spaces must be enclosed in double quotes (").

::alert{type="success"}
✨ __Tip:__ You can also format tags as a list for better readability:
```yaml
images:
- src: gallery/your_photo_1.jpg
  tags: 
    - portrait
    - sunset
    - photos
```
::

