---
icon: mdi:update
title: Update
main:
  fluid: false
---
:ellipsis{left=0px width=40rem top=10rem blur=140px}
# Updating the framework

To update the framework, follow these steps:

## 🐳 Docker with the provided **Lum[eex]{style="color: #1ad6ff"}** image
---

1. Stop and remove your container

::code-group
```sh [Docker run]
sudo docker rm -f lmx
```
```sh [Docker compose]
sudo docker compose down
```
::

2. Backup your `config/` folder
3. Pull the latest image
```sh
sudo docker pull git.djeex.fr/djeex/lumeex:latest
```
4. [Recreate your container](/getting-started/quick-start).
5. Review any potential [breaking changes](https://git.djeex.fr/Djeex/lumeex/releases) and update your config files accordingly.
6. Rebuild your site (from WebUI or CLI)
7. Deploy the updated site to your preferred web server.

## 🐳 Docker image built from Git 
---
1. Backup your `config/` folder mounted into your container (by default: `lumeex/config/`)
2. Reinstall the repository by following the Docker [advanced installation procedure](/getting-started/advanced#docker-installation).
3. Restore your `config/` folder from your backup
4. Review any potential [breaking changes](https://git.djeex.fr/Djeex/lumeex/releases) and update your config files accordingly.
5. [Rebuild your container](/getting-started/advanced#from-git-repository).
6. Rebuild your site (from WebUI or CLI)
7. Deploy the updated site to your preferred web server.

## 🐍 Python
---

1. Backup your `lumeex/config/` folder.
2. Reinstall the repository by following the Python [installation procedure](/getting-started/advanced#python-installation).
3. Restore your `site.yaml` and `photo/` folder from your backup.
4. Review any potential [breaking changes](https://git.djeex.fr/Djeex/lumeex/releases) and update your `site.yaml` accordingly.
5. (optional) Restore your custom `config/theme/` folder and check for any relevant [breaking changes](https://git.djeex.fr/Djeex/lumeex/releases).
6. [Rebuild your gallery](/cli-users/gallery#building-your-gallery).
7. [Rebuild your site](/cli-users/build#build-the-site).
8. Deploy the updated site to your preferred web server.