---
icon: mdi:clipboard-list
title: Features
main:
  fluid: false
---
:ellipsis{right=0px width=75% blur=150px}
# What is Lum[eex]{style="color: #1ad6ff"} ?

**Lum[eex]{style="color: #1ad6ff"}** is a static site generator designed to create minimalist photo galleries that highlight your artworks over the author. It empowers users to organize and explore images using tags, with each page load presenting photos in a random order to encourage discovery of new content.

The project includes two thoughtfully designed themes—one modern, one minimalistic—both crafted to keep the spotlight on your photos:

##

### Gallery (static web site)
---

::list
  - Photos displayed in a random order on each page load.
  - Tag-based filtering (with the ability to combine multiple tags).
  - Shareable URLs with active tag filters.
  - Photo carousel on the landing page.
  - Legal notice page.
  - Supports Google Fonts and local fonts.
::

### No-Code Builder Based on YAML Files
---
::list
  - YAML files to configure site information, SEO, colors, fonts, etc. — no code needed
  - YAML files to reference and tag photos—no code needed.
  - (Optional) Automatically add photos to the reference file.
::

### Simple Build Process
---
::list
  - Compiles from YAML config files (theme selection, template building, fonts, colors, etc.).
  - Automatically converts the favicon to all required formats.
  - Automatically resize social thumbnail
  - (Optional) Automatically resizes photos to a max width of 1140px.
  - (Optional) Converts images to WebP for better performance.
  - Outputs a fully generated static website, ready to be copied to any web server.
::

And other futures improvements !


::card-grid
#root
:ellipsis{left=0px width=40rem top=10rem blur=140px}
#title
Shipped with two pre-made themes
#default
  ::card{icon=fluent-color:design-ideas-48}
  #title
  Modern theme
  #description
  [Explore the demo](https://modern.djeex.fr)
  ::

  ::card{icon=fluent-color:design-ideas-48}
  #title
  Typewriter theme
  #description
  [Explore the demo](https://typewriter.djeex.fr)
  ::
::